The text reminds us of using our financial means to make friends with Jehovah and Jesus and even though a Jehovah owns everything
Seeing as giving making sacrifices makes him happy the result is a close relationship or in the words of our scripture text
We become friends
Now this important principle was known by the men of old David for example was one of them
And he was very much interested in having a close relationship with Jehovah
Now in a second Samuel chapter 24
We find David in a very difficult situation because of his own major mistake
He has lost the Jehovah's favor now
What would he do in order to reestablish this close friendship with Jehovah?
After repenting his sin and being faced with the consequences of his wrongdoing
He was told to build an altar on the threshing floor of a rounder
Let us see how David reacted when a rounder wanted to give this place to David as a gift
We read in second Samuel chapter 24 in verse 24
However, the king David said to a rounder, no, I must buy it from you for a prize
I will not offer up to Jehovah my God burns sacrifices that cost me nothing
So David bought the threshing floor and the cattle for 50 civil shakles
True, it was repentance and obedience that paved the way for David to reestablish his friendship with Jehovah
However, as we just read David understood that
Giving from his own material possessions or in the words of our scripture text today from his unrighteous riches
Would make Jehovah happy
David wanted to give at a cost
Now how are we imitating David in this regard? Let us look at some ways how we do this as individuals
as congregation
And as a global organization, how do we use our financial means to make friends in heaven?
Let us first talk about how we do this as individuals
Many of us are being guided by a Bible principle found in 1 Corinthians 16
Here the Apostle Paul talks about a collection that likely involved money
The congregation Corinth was encouraged to help the Judean Christians
So what principle did Paul establish in this connection? This is 1 Corinthians 16 we read verse 2
On the first day of every week
Each of you should set something aside according to his own means so that collection will not take place when I arrive
Paul recommended that each Christian in Corinth make it a priority to set something aside to donate to those in need
So the principle is to plan our spending on to make giving a part of it
And this is what we can observe despite the fact that special full-time servants have very limited financial means
Many plan their giving many have established recurring donations on our website
for the congregation or
and or for the
Organization for the Kingdom interest worldwide in this way. We do not need to think about it every month
But might only reconsider it once in a while to see whether our giving is still in line with our overall budget
Thank you so much for what you do in this regard and can you see how Chihuah
your friend
loves you for doing this
Now what do we do as a congregation
In order to use our funds to make friends in heaven
We know from the monthly accounts report that all available funds are being used for supporting Kingdom interests
Covering the monthly expenses of the congregation's part of it
However in addition to it the congregations are applying a principle found in second Corinthians chapter 8
The Apostle Paul referred here to the collection we read earlier about and
He emphasized the reason for this collection
Now let's read second Corinthians chapter 8 verses 13 and 14
For I do not want to make it easy for others
But difficult for you
But that by means of an equalizing
Your surplus at the present time might offset their need so that their surplus might also offer your
Offset your deficiencies that there may be an equalizing
So the congregation in Corinth was encouraged to use their financial means to support others who we're in need
This principle of equalizing is something we find in the congregation
For example when it comes to donating for the Kingdom Hall and assembly hall program
You might remember that once a year the body of elders
Recommended resolution to the congregation for contributing to the building and maintenance of Kingdom Halls and assembly halls
why
For at least two reasons
First the congregations themselves benefit from the local design and construction arrangement
That is why for example a nearby congregation who
Just benefited from this arrangement by remodeling their Kingdom Hall
Increased their monthly contribution to the program
But then there's this second reason in line with the principle that we just read
It is an expression of love for our brothers in other country
As a congregation we want to give we want to make sacrifices
To support the building and maintenance of these places of worship in other countries making sacrifices
In support of those who are in need the congregation does not just want to give the left over so to speak
But supports the arrangement wholeheartedly and all the brothers and sisters who are benefiting from this giving spirit
They say thank you
And Jehovah blesses the congregation
Now finally how do we as a global organization use financial means in order to make friends in heaven
First of all the scriptural arrangement has been put in place that the governing body is entrusted with
Decision making on how to use
The financial means of the organization and
The funds are exclusively used for our purposes which is our religious purposes
Now let's look at one of the many Bible principles that apply in using these funds. Let us please turn to Matthew chapter 10
It was Jesus who gave this instruction to his disciples here in Matthew chapter 10
Let's read verse 8
He said
Cure the sick raise up the dead make lepers clean expel demons and now the principle
You received free
give free
Now did the apostles follow this directive? Yes, and they even continued when Jesus died and later on
The organization does that very same we are not selling our
Bibles and publication we are not expecting or asking for admission fees to our meetings and conventions
We we are not even having fundraising events
But then see that for example in 2018 the organization organization spent
2014 million US dollar in supporting the circuit overseers the missionaries and their special pioneers
and then think about the fact that
You're in the same time 20,331
Batellites served at the various branches and we all got it our modest allowance
And we all have something to eat
And then see that the branch facilities need to be maintained and I have been maintained
or think about the relief ministry
In addition to the voluntary work of so many brothers and sisters and in addition to their personal
funds that they
Spend in order to help the organization spends millions on the relief
ministry
So our activity as a global organization is not performed in order to make financial profit
But in order to fulfill our assignment that Jesus gave
So in this way whether we look at it as from the perspective of an individual
the congregation or the global organization
Let us continue to give from what we have let us continue to make sacrifices
And we will be happy with having to hold on Jesus as our friends